you can be both stiff and flexible at
the same time and the solution to get
rid of stiffness is not stretching
believe it or not this problem actually
had scientists shocking people with
electricity for several hours humanely
of course but before we get to that you
have to know what muscle stiffness even
is stiffness isn't really about
flexibility it actually has very little
to do with how much your muscles and
surrounding tissues can actually
lengthen it has more to do with how much
your muscles are resist in movement even
though you're supposedly relaxing my
shoulder is very flexible with enough
Force but this is about all I can do
without help however if I use a pole I
can go much further past that initial
stiffness I've never seen myself do this
actually this is kind of that's pretty
crazy so my rotators are very flexible
but they're stiffer towards those end
ranges of motion which is a good thing
that means my arm is not going to fall
off randomly
probably this passive stiffness that you
don't really have control over is called
your resting muscle tone and it usually
increases with a lot of inactivity like
sitting standing or just age but that's
probably because the older you get the
less you tend to move in general which
of course increases your stiffness so
instead of just being stiff toward the
end
ranges you'll be stiff during the entire
range massage from some sort of
therapist a foam roll and even static
stretching can bring IM immediate relief
to your stiffness but this fluidity
you're feeling is only temporary and
then your cheeks are going to go right
back to being stiff in a few hours or
even just a few minutes but this doesn't
mean stretching is useless in fact the
only reason I'm able to do this is
because I've stretched but since
stretching a massage has a temporary but
immediate effect on stiffness it's very
very useful when you get that cramp
Sometimes the best way to deal with that
is stretching and yes that does include
period cramps now it's time for the shot
in study get it cuz electricity no this
study had people sit for 4 and 1/2 hours
and what do you know everyone's upper
and lower backs got stiffer and stiffer
as time went on the lower back in
particular got extra stiff now imagine
what happens to you if you sit for say 8
hours a day for a job and you do that
for 40 years the lower back at that
point can seem quite literally immovable
and stiff believe it or not that
stiffness is actually useful for say
lifting heavy weights but with that lack
of movement ability Mobility you
actually lose the ability to effectively
rehabilitate because movement is very
very essential to rehab anyway back to
the study the scientists decided to
electrically stimulate the upper backs
and the lower backs 17 times evenly
spaced out through the 4 and 1/2 hours
at the motor threshold for the first
group at the sensory threshold for the
second group and the last group the poor
control group literally sat for 4 and
1/2 hours and did nothing imagine being
in a study like this and all you do is
sit for 4 and 1/2 hours to prove that
yep sitting sucks and by the way the
motor threshold is enough to make the
muscles cramp and the sensory threshold
is just enough that you can barely feel
it first group that had their muscles
shocked 17 times throughout the duration
of the 4 and 1/2 hours had the muscle
stiffness in the upper and the lower
back almost completely revers and for
the second group the one that was
shocked only a little bit nothing
happened probably due to the sensory
threshold being so light that the
muscles didn't even contract and the
pore control group just got very bored
and very stiff so what does this mean
muscle contraction which is simply just
using your muscles reverses muscle
stiffness and your body knows this cuz
when you get up after sitting and you
stretch you're not just stretching cuz
your body knows the stretching is a
temporary fix what you're actually doing
is Contracting your opposite side
muscles extremely hard which is exactly
what your body needs to reduce that
stiffness in your
back oh yeah if you absolutely have to
sit for a while like you work a desk job
or you do school just remember this
motion is lotion so switch up your
posture as often as possible and if you
do have the opportunity to get up and
move a lot do it there are tons of
benefits to Movement Like increased
blood flow and increase synovial fluid
but the real reason you're doing it is
because you want to activate those
muscles which keeps the stiffness at Bay
and if you want to live that extreme
flexy lifestyle I actually have programs
you can try and since I'm friends with
the best coaches on the internet you
actually get access to their programs as
well with no additional charge so it's
definitely worth it recap you can be
both stiff and flexible at the same time
stiffness is not actually bad and if
it's too much you can actually improve
it stretch Ing and massage helps with
immediate relief from stiffness which
helps with cramps and period cramps but
not chronic stiffness and flexing your
muscles is how you actually reduce
stiffness man that was a lot stay
flexy okay